W-11580076 policy order gr (#434)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.6/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-reorder.adoc

= Ordering Policies
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:page-aliases: api-manager::re-order-policies-task.adoc, policies-included-reorder.adoc, policies::policies-included-reorder.adoc, policies::policies-reorder.adoc

> To execute certain policies before others, you can configure the order of execution of included and custom policies. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To execute certain policies before others, configure the order of execution of included and custom policies. 
```

You can configure both included and custom policies to execute as automated policies or API-level policies. Automated policies are policies that are applied to all API instances deployed on the Flex Replica and execute before API-level policies. API-level policies are policies that are only applied to a specific API instance.

> For Flex Gateway running in Connected Mode, you order policies via API Manager. For Flex Gateway running in Local Mode you order policies via a `PolicyBinding` YAML resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Flex Gateway running in Connected Mode, use API Manager to order policies. For Flex Gateway running in Local Mode, use a `PolicyBinding` YAML resource to order policies.
```

IMPORTANT: You cannot configure the execution order of the xref:policies-included-cors.adoc[Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) policy]. The CORS policy executes before automated and API-level policies.

== Policy Execution Order

> Policies can either execute on the API request, the API response, or on both. Policies execute in order during the API request and in inverse order during the API response. If a policy does not execute in a certain direction, Flex Gateway skips the policy in that direction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Policies can either execute on the API request, the API response, or both. Policies execute in order during the API request and in inverse order during the API response. If a policy does not execute in a certain direction, Flex Gateway skips the policy in that direction.
```

> For example, if you have four policies ordered:

Reviewer: Nice example!

. Automated Policy 1
. Automated Policy 2
. API-Level Policy 1
. API-Level Policy 2

The policies execute in the following order on the response:

. API-Level Policy 2
. API-Level Policy 1
. Automated Policy 2
. Automated Policy 1

[[automated-policies]]
== Order Automated Policies

> Refer to the following sections for your relevant mode.

Reviewer: Suggest either adding more information here or removing this level and elevating the H3s to H2s.

Reviewer: Or maybe, since Connected mode isn't really much, just remove the H3s.

The idea is to flatten the hierarchy (elevate headings to appear in the right nav) and remove empty/fluffy sections.

=== Flex Gateway in Connected Mode

You cannot configure the order of automated policies in API Manager. Automated policies execute in the order they are applied to the API instance. Apply automated policies in the order you want them to execute.

=== Flex Gateway in Local Mode

To apply a automated policy to Flex Gateway running in Local Mode, you must apply a resource-level policy. By doing so, you can apply the same policy to all API instances running on the Flex Replica.

To apply a resource-level policy to all API instances, refer to xref:flex-local-secure-api-with-auto-policy.adoc[].

> To order automated resource-level policies, edit the `order` parameter to match when you want the policy to execute. Ensure that this order does not conflict with the order of any other policies. For example, if you apply two automated resource-level policies with `order: 1` and `order: 2`, any API-level policy must start at `order: 3`.

Reviewer: I keep reading "To order" and wanting it to say "To specify the order of", but I'm not sure why. I think because the verb order means something else to me.

[[api-level-policies]]
== Order API-Level Policies

> Refer to the following sections for your relevant mode.

Reviewer: Same comment as above. Each section should have relevant information. There's no need to have these two levels, particularly given how short each subsection is.

. Click *Apply order*.

=== Flex Gateway in Local Mode

> In Flex Gateway running in Local Mode, you configure policy ordering via a `PolicyBinding` YAML resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Flex Gateway running in Local Mode, configure policy ordering via a `PolicyBinding` YAML resource.
```
